README.md, before:

# Background

## Prerequisites

1. Follow the steps [here](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/tutorials/getting-started) to create an access token.
2. Run `cp .env.dist .env`
3. Set the CLIENT_ID and CLIENT_SECRET values in the .env file
4. Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Feature Ideas

Playlist analysis:

- [x] give playlists rankings based on danceability, tempo, metrics
- [ ] actually paginate through more than the page limit of 50 and rank entire list (may hit api limits at certain playlist sizes, need to throttle)
- [ ] compare most similar playlists
- [ ] rank your friends' public playlists based on these too
- [ ] combine any two playlists
- [ ] identify "outlier" songs (plotly may do statistical significance reporting)
- [ ] identify most homogeneous and least homogeneous playlists
- [x] rank songs by popularity
- [ ] create new copies of the playlists based on custom ordering (or override in place)

Playlist analysis visualization:

- [x] data visualization plugin works using sample data
- [x] use a plugin to automatically do some of the data visualizations
- [x] visualize popularity and audio features for all the current user's playlists
- [x] sort by ascending, descending, or original order in the playlist to analyze where there transitions between songs could sound more seamless
- [ ] create a session for an arbitrary user who authenticates and show them their data

Playlist management:

- [ ] find playlists by a particular song
- [ ] find repeat songs across different playlists

Artists' songs analysis:

- [ ] rank a favorite artists' songs by audio features
- [ ] identify outlier songs
- [ ] compare homogeneity of two artists' songs across a certain category
- [ ] popularity ranking

Stretch goals with account data zip  (these can only be done with account data zip - must request download per user instead of using api)

- [ ] report listening trends over time
- [ ] what time of day are you listening

Recently listened to data:

- [x] Use a different scope to fetch most recently listened to songs
- [ ] Rate the "mood" of recent listens (perhaps against average moods of playlists)

## Sources and inspirations

- [Sort Your Music](http://sortyourmusic.playlistmachinery.com) ([Source code](https://github.com/plamere/SortYourMusic/tree/master))
- [Spotipy client documentation](https://spotipy.readthedocs.io/en/2.22.1/)
- [Spotify developer API documentation](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api)
- [Stats for Spotify](https://www.statsforspotify.com/) (Paid service - source code not linked)

Commit message:

Improve instructions and use python-dotenv to inject env vars into client constructor

README.md, after:

# Background

I wanted a tool to visualize my playlists based on all the quantitative metrics the Spotify API provides for each track.  Sometimes I start throwing a bunch of songs I like in a playlist without having a good sense of the theme yet, then end up with a group of songs I like individually but they just don't quite flow well together.  This will use data to validate those feelings and tune your ears to the differences between your favorite songs.

## Prerequisites

This assumes you have Python 3 and Pip installed.

## Steps to run

1. Follow the steps [here](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/tutorials/getting-started) to create an access token.
2. Create your .env file that Python will automatically look for environment variables in: `cp .env.dist .env`
3. Set the CLIENT_ID and CLIENT_SECRET values generated in step one in the .env file
4. Download the necessary libraries with `pip install -r requirements.txt`
5. Run `python src/main.py`

## Feature Ideas

Playlist analysis:

- [x] give playlists rankings based on danceability, tempo, metrics
- [ ] actually paginate through more than the page limit of 50 and rank entire list (may hit api limits at certain playlist sizes, need to throttle)
- [ ] compare most similar playlists
- [ ] rank your friends' public playlists based on these too
- [ ] combine any two playlists
- [ ] identify "outlier" songs (plotly may do statistical significance reporting)
- [ ] identify most homogeneous and least homogeneous playlists
- [x] rank songs by popularity
- [ ] create new copies of the playlists based on custom ordering (or override in place)

Playlist analysis visualization:

- [x] data visualization plugin works using sample data
- [x] use a plugin to automatically do some of the data visualizations
- [x] visualize popularity and audio features for all the current user's playlists
- [x] sort by ascending, descending, or original order in the playlist to analyze where there transitions between songs could sound more seamless
- [ ] create a session for an arbitrary user who authenticates and show them their data

Playlist management:

- [ ] find playlists by a particular song
- [ ] find repeat songs across different playlists

Artists' songs analysis:

- [ ] rank a favorite artists' songs by audio features
- [ ] identify outlier songs
- [ ] compare homogeneity of two artists' songs across a certain category
- [ ] popularity ranking

Stretch goals with account data zip  (these can only be done with account data zip - must request download per user instead of using api)

- [ ] report listening trends over time
- [ ] what time of day are you listening

Recently listened to data:

- [x] Use a different scope to fetch most recently listened to songs
- [ ] Rate the "mood" of recent listens (perhaps against average moods of playlists)

## Sources and inspirations

- [Sort Your Music](http://sortyourmusic.playlistmachinery.com) ([Source code](https://github.com/plamere/SortYourMusic/tree/master))
- [Spotipy client documentation](https://spotipy.readthedocs.io/en/2.22.1/)
- [Spotify developer API documentation](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api)
- [Stats for Spotify](https://www.statsforspotify.com/) (Paid service - source code not linked)
